This folder contains the python code file to simulate a fixed-bed dryer (FBD) for agricultural products as well as sample input and output data files. It is an implementation of the mathematical model by Bakker Arkema described in the book "Drying and storage of grains and oilseeds" by Brooker, Bakker-Arkema and Hall" (1992). The are four differential equations for product moisture and temperature, air temperature and air humidity. The height  of the  product bulk is divided in a number of sections defined by the user and the equations are solved in the nodes using the finite difference method. The equations are solved iteratively until the convergence criteria (also defined by the user) are met.

As it is, the code is set up for the drying of wheat according to wheat's physical and thermal properties. The sorption isotherm equation and the thin-layer drying equation necessary for the drying modelling are specific for a crop and may take different forms. There exist numerous isotherm and thin-layer equations for many crops and the equation parameters, which are usually a function of variables such as temperature, relative humidity and/or air velocity, are found from experiments and published in the literature. The program file includes the necessary functions to calculate values related to these two equations. These must be modified if the drying of another model is calculated. These are called "equilibrium_rh", "equilibrium_Xp", "drying_rate_k_parameter" and "drying_rate_n_parameter". 

Care must be taken by the user to ensure that the calculations obtained from those equations found in the literature for a given crop are transformed (if necessary) to the units used in the programs here. For example, in the calculations relative humidity is not expressed as % but as decimal, and the product moisture is not expressed in % wet basis but in decimal dry basis (kg/kg). In the literature of both sorption isotherms and thin-layer drying other units might have been used, such as %wb or %db for moisture, h or min for time, or % for relative humidity.

The program reads an input data file. In the framework of the present code package, this input file can be the output file from the solar air heater or the latent heat storage programs (not the "DETAILS" files but the others), which are similar except for the number of columns. Accordingly, the dryer code includes two functions to read the input file and the user has to call the correct one. They are called "extract_data_SAH_output" and "extract_data_LHS_output".

