This Type models the drying of agricultural materials in a fixed bed. It is an implementation of the mathematical model by Bakker Arkema described in the book "Drying and storage of grains and oilseeds" by Brooker, Bakker-Arkema and Hall" (1992). The are four differential equations for product moisture and temperature, air temperature and air humidity. The height  of the  product bulk is divided in a number of sections defined by the user and the equations are solved in the nodes using the finite difference method. The equations are solved iteratively until the convergence criteria (also defined by the user) are met.

The equation for the product moisture takes the form of a thin-layer drying equation. Additionally, a sorption isotherm equation relating temperature, relative humidity and moisture content is required. Functions external to the Type Subroutine appear at the end of the file to calculate equilibrium moisture content and relative humidity, and the thin-layer parameters. Both the thin-layer drying equation and the isotherm equation vary from product to product and for a given product different equations can be found in the literature. As is, the Type contains these equations for wheat (the Oswin isotherm model and the Page thin layer drying model, both taken from the paper by Ramaj (2021). If these equations are changed, care must be taken by the user to ensure that the units remain correct, since different authors develop their isotherm and thin-layer drying equations with different units (time in h, min or s; moisture in %wb, %db or decimal db, relative humidity in decimal or %, and so on). The code in this type uses time in s, moisture content in decimal db, relative humdity in decimal).

If the mentioned functions after the subroutine are modified to model a different product, the INTERFACE block at the beginning of the subroutine has to be changed accordingly. 
